kubeadm: update the upgrade documentation for 1.20 (#24908)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade.md

title: Upgrading kubeadm clusters
content_type: task
weight: 20

> min-kubernetes-server-version: "{{< skew latestVersion >}}"

Reviewer: Does this actually render OK? To check, add the `{{< version-check >}}` shortcode into the page.

Author: how is `min-kubernetes-server-version` used on this page and do we need it?
when i was checking the render yesterday i did not see indications of it.

Reviewer: `min-kubernetes-server-version` is used for `{{< version-check >}}` and is also available for use elsewhere.

I think given this PR and its intent, I would remove that line from the YAML.

Author: removed.

Author: @fabriziopandini as @sftim noted it's used with the `{{< version-check >}}` functionality to indicate to users if a certain feature requires a minimum k8s version.

it's not needed in the doc for the time being.

---

<!-- overview -->

This page explains how to upgrade a Kubernetes cluster created with kubeadm from version
**{{< skew prevMinorVersion >}}** to version **{{< skew latestVersion >}}**, and from version

> **{{< skew latestVersion >}}.x** to **{{< skew latestVersion >}}.y** (where `y > x`).

Author: i agree that for a good set of prior versions, the process has normalized to the point where we can do that. unclear about future versions (e.g. kube-proxy DS vs SPod).

so i can see us doing:
> general overview ...
> 
> automated table with versions where this is supported
> vX.YY -> vX.YY+1
> ...

**{{< skew prevMinorVersion >}}** to version **{{< skew latestVersion >}}**, and from version
**{{< skew latestVersion >}}.x** to **{{< skew latestVersion >}}.y** (where `y > x`).

To see information about upgrading clusters created using older versions of kubeadm,
please refer to following pages instead:
copy the following link into your browser but replace `xx` with the desired MINOR version
to upgrade to (for example `19`):

- [Upgrading kubeadm cluster from 1.17 to 1.18](https://v1-18.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade/)
- [Upgrading kubeadm cluster from 1.16 to 1.17](https://v1-17.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade/)
- [Upgrading kubeadm cluster from 1.15 to 1.16](https://v1-16.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade/)
- [Upgrading kubeadm cluster from 1.14 to 1.15](https://v1-15.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade-1-15/)

> - [Upgrading kubeadm cluster from 1.13 to 1.14](https://v1-15.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade-1-14/)

Reviewer: The existing unordered list seems better for readers - a quick scan, one click, not much thinking.

Author: agreed that this degrades the UX a little

unless there is a way to automate the list links, i suggest we log an issue at k/website about it as one of the goals of the PR is to remove the kubeadm maintainer commitment for sending a kubeadm upgrade PR for the docs on every release.

Author: actually, i will try to construct the links in this PR.

for the versions in skew, we could use skew + replace for that:
https://github.com/kubernetes/website/blob/8e2544f1902d61795e62db1125d0d5d4a8157664/layouts/shortcodes/skew.html#L49-L51
https://gohugo.io/functions/replace/

so maybe something like:

```
- [Upgrading kubeadm cluster from {{< skew oldestMinorVersion >}} to {{< skew prevMinorVersion >}}](https://v{{ replace {{< skew prevMinorVersion >}} "." "-" }}.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade/)
```

so if the current doc is 19->20 we can also have the link for 18->19 from skew, but not the links for the older versions
i guess we can try Hugo's math for that https://gohugo.io/functions/math/

Reviewer: :+1: for logging an issue and dealing with that later.

I could have a go at a shortcode to repeat a link across all supported versions, if they all have the same path.

Author: @sftim i've added a new commit that adds `skew latestVersionAddMinor <number> "separator"`.
it makes it possible to produce any version with a custom separator.

LMK if an issue should still be logged.
we should note that the general logic in "skew.html" as is, will fail once k8s moves to v2.0 some day.

---

<!-- overview -->

This page explains how to upgrade a Kubernetes cluster created with kubeadm from version
{{< skew latestVersionAddMinor -1 >}}.x to version {{< skew latestVersion >}}.x, and from version
{{< skew latestVersion >}}.x to {{< skew latestVersion >}}.y (where `y > x`). Skipping MINOR versions
when upgrading is unsupported.

To see information about upgrading clusters created using older versions of kubeadm,
please refer to following pages instead:

- [Upgrading a kubeadm cluster from {{< skew latestVersionAddMinor -2 >}} to {{< skew latestVersionAddMinor -1 >}}](https://v{{< skew latestVersionAddMinor -1 "-" >}}.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade/)
- [Upgrading a kubeadm cluster from {{< skew latestVersionAddMinor -3 >}} to {{< skew latestVersionAddMinor -2 >}}](https://v{{< skew latestVersionAddMinor -2 "-" >}}.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade/)
- [Upgrading a kubeadm cluster from {{< skew latestVersionAddMinor -4 >}} to {{< skew latestVersionAddMinor -3 >}}](https://v{{< skew latestVersionAddMinor -3 "-" >}}.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade/)

> - [Upgrading a kubeadm cluster from {{< skew latestVersionAddMinor -5 >}} to {{< skew latestVersionAddMinor -4 >}}](https://v{{< skew latestVersionAddMinor -4 "-" >}}.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade/)

Reviewer: After the v1.20 release this will become a broken link, I think.

Author: are the `v1-16` docs planned for removal with the release of 1.20?
i think what would be removed with the release of 1.20 is `v1-15`

for the 1.20 version of this page the link would be 1.20-4 = 16:
https://v1-16.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade/

Reviewer: D'oh yes.

The upgrade workflow at high level is the following:

1. Upgrade a primary control plane node.
1. Upgrade additional control plane nodes.
1. Upgrade worker nodes.

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

- Make sure you read the [release notes]({{< latest-release-notes >}}) carefully.
- The cluster should use a static control plane and etcd pods or external etcd.
- Make sure to back up any important components, such as app-level state stored in a database.
  `kubeadm upgrade` does not touch your workloads, only components internal to Kubernetes, but backups are always a best practice.
- [Swap must be disabled](https://serverfault.com/questions/684771/best-way-to-disable-swap-in-linux).

### Additional information

- [Draining nodes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/safely-drain-node/) before kubelet MINOR version
  upgrades is required. In the case of control-plane nodes, they could be running CoreDNS Pods or other critical workloads.
- All containers are restarted after upgrade, because the container spec hash value is changed.

<!-- steps -->

## Determine which version to upgrade to

> Pick a target version from this list to update the examples bellow:

Reviewer: Typo: “bellow”.

Author: :+1:  will update once we decide on:
https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/24908#issuecomment-730515093

> min-kubernetes-server-version: 1.19

Reviewer: Remember to
```suggestion
min-kubernetes-server-version: 1.20
```
:wink:

Author: added `"{{< skew latestVersion >}}"` here, instead of the literal version.

### Additional information

- All containers are restarted after upgrade, because the container spec hash value is changed.

> - You can uonly pgrade from one MINOR version to the next MINOR version,

Reviewer 2: just a small typo here

```suggestion
- You can only upgrade from one MINOR version to the next MINOR version,
```

sudo kubeadm upgrade apply
```

Also calling `kubeadm upgrade plan` and upgrading the CNI provider plugin is no longer needed.

> ### Drain the node

Author: added general note in "additional information"

    kubectl drain <node-to-drain> --ignore-daemonsets
    ```

### Call "kubeadm upgrade"

-  For worker nodes this upgrades the local kubelet configuration:

    ```shell
    sudo kubeadm upgrade node
    ```

### Upgrade kubelet and kubectl

> -  Upgrade the kubelet and kubectl:

Author: added general note in "additional information"

{{< tabs name="k8s_kubelet_and_kubectl" >}}
{{% tab name="Ubuntu, Debian or HypriotOS" %}}
    # replace x in {{< skew latestVersion >}}.x-00 with the latest patch version
    apt-mark unhold kubelet kubectl && \
    apt-get update && apt-get install -y kubelet={{< skew latestVersion >}}.x-00 kubectl={{< skew latestVersion >}}.x-00 && \
    apt-mark hold kubelet kubectl
    -
    # since apt-get version 1.1 you can also use the following method
    apt-get update && \
    apt-get install -y --allow-change-held-packages kubelet={{< skew latestVersion >}}.x-00 kubectl={{< skew latestVersion >}}.x-00
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="CentOS, RHEL or Fedora" %}}
    # replace x in {{< skew latestVersion >}}.x-0 with the latest patch version
    yum install -y kubelet-{{< skew latestVersion >}}.x-0 kubectl-{{< skew latestVersion >}}.x-0 --disableexcludes=kubernetes
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> -  Restart the kubelet:

Author: there is this bellow already:

    ```shell
    sudo systemctl daemon-reload
    sudo systemctl restart kubelet
    ```
